Update docs for 2021.9 (#4742)
microsoft/vscode-docs: docs/python/testing.md

With this code, you can experience working with tests in VS Code as described in the sections that follow.

## Configure tests

Once you install the Python extension, a test beaker icon will be available on the VS Code activity bar - that's the **Test Explorer**. When opening the test explorer, you will see a "Configure Tests" button if you don't have a test framework enabled. Once you click this button, you will be prompted you to select a test framework and the folder containing tests. If you're using unittest, you will also be asked to select the pattern used to identify your test files.

![Configure Python Tests button displayed in the test explorer when tests haven't been configured.](images/testing/test-explorer-no-tests.png)

You can configure your tests anytime by using  the **Python: Configure Tests** command on the Command Palette. You can also configure testing manually by setting either `python.testing.unittestEnabled` or `python.testing.pytestEnabled` to true. Each framework also has specific configuration settings as described under [Test configuration settings](#test-configuration-settings) for their folders and patterns.

> If both the frameworks are enabled, then the Python extension will run `pytest` only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If both frameworks are enabled, then the Python extension will only run `pytest`.
```

## Enable a test framework

Once you install the Python extension, a test beaker icon will be available on the VS Code activity bar -- that's the **Test Explorer**. When opening the test explorer, you will see a "Configure Tests" button if you don't have a test framework enabled. Once you click this button, you will be prompted you to select a test framework, the folder containing tests, and the pattern used to identify test files.

[comment]: <TODO: add screenshot>

You can configure your tests anytime by using  the **Python: Configure Tests** command on the Command Palette. You can also configure testing manually by setting either `python.testing.unittestEnabled` or `python.testing.pytestEnabled` to true. Each framework also has specific configuration settings as described under [Test configuration settings](#test-configuration-settings) for their folders and patterns.

> It's important that you enable only a single test framework at a time for a given workspace. For this reason, when you enable one framework also be sure to disable the others. The **Python: Configure Tests** command does this automatically.

Reviewer 2: If you enable both `pytest` and `unittest`, we only run `pytest`. we should verify this once.

Testing in Python is disabled by default. To enable testing, use the **Python: Configure Tests** command on the Command Palette. This command prompts you to select a test framework, the folder containing tests, and the pattern used to identify test files.

> You can also configure testing manually by setting *one and only one* of the following settings to true: `python.testing.unittestEnabled` or `python.testing.pytestEnabled`. Each framework also has specific configuration settings as described under [Test configuration settings](#test-configuration-settings) for their folders and patterns.

Reviewer 2: Do we need to mention that this is per workspace?

Author: but can't they configure it both on user and workspace settings?

## Test discovery

By default, the Python extension attempts to discover tests once you enable a framework. You can trigger test discovery at any time using the **Test: Refresh Tests** command.

[comment]: <TODO: add screenshot>

> `python.testing.autoTestDiscoverOnSaveEnabled` is set to `true` by default, meaning that test discovery is also performed automatically whenever you, add, delete, or update any Python file in the workspace. To disable this feature, set the value to `false`.

Reviewer 2: You will have to re-load for this to take effect.

## Test discovery

> By default, the Python extension attempts to discover tests once you enable a framework. You can trigger test discovery at any time using the **Test: Refresh Tests** command, or by clicking on the refresh button in the **Test Explorer**.

Reviewer 2: The `refresh` button may not be shown based on experiment.

## Test discovery

By default, the Python extension attempts to discover tests once you enable a framework. You can trigger test discovery at any time using the **Test: Refresh Tests** command.

[comment]: <TODO: add screenshot>

> `python.testing.autoTestDiscoverOnSaveEnabled` is set to `true` by default, meaning test discovery is also performed automatically whenever you save a test file. To disable this feature, set the value to `false`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`python.testing.autoTestDiscoverOnSaveEnabled` is set to `true` by default, meaning that test discovery is also performed automatically whenever you save a test file. To disable this feature, set the value to `false`.
```

> **Tip**: Sometimes tests placed in subfolders aren't discovered because such test files cannot be imported. To make them importable, create an empty file named `__init__.py` in that folder.

[comment]: <TODO: update text below>

> If discovery succeeds, the status bar shows **Run Tests** instead:

Reviewer 2: We don't have status bar for tests anymore.

> **Tip**: Sometimes tests placed in subfolders aren't discovered because such test files cannot be imported. To make them importable, create an empty file named `__init__.py` in that folder.

[comment]: <TODO: update text below>

If discovery succeeds, you will see tests displayed in the test explorer:

![The VS Code Test Explorer for Python tests](images/testing/test-explorer.png)

> If discovery fails (for example, the test framework isn't installed), you will see an error message displayed on the test explorer. You can click on the console icon at the top-right of the test explorer to see what the entire error message in the output.

Reviewer 2: Discovery errors are in the python logs. Run errors are in the Run console logs.

![Discovery failure error messaged displayed in the test explorer](images/testing/test-discovery-error.png)

Once VS Code recognizes tests, it provides several ways to run those tests as described in [Run tests](#run-tests).

## Run tests

You can run tests using any of the following actions:

- With a test file open, click on the green run icon that is displayed on the gutter next to the test definition line, as shown in the previous section. This command runs only that one method.

    ![Run test icon displayed on the gutter when the test file is open in the editor](images/testing/run-tests-gutter.png)

> - From the **Command Palette** by running any of the following commands, according to your preference:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- From the **Command Palette**, by running any of the following commands:
```

      ![Running tests at specific scopes through Test Explorer](images/testing/test-explorer-run-scoped-tests.png)

  - You can also run a selection of tests through the test explorer. To do that,  `kbstyle(Ctrl+Click)` (or `kbstyle(Cmd+Click)` on macOS) on the tests you wish to run, right-click on one of them and then select **Run Test**.

After a test run, VS Code displays results directly in the editor as gutter decorations. Failed tests will also be highlighted in the editor, with a Peek View that displays the test run error message along with a history of all of the tests' runs. You can press `escape` to dismiss the view, and you can disable it by opening the User settings (**Preferences: Open Settings (UI)** command in the **Command Palette**) and changing the value of the `Testing: Automatically Open Peek View` setting to `never`.

In the **Test Explorer**, results are shown for individual tests as well as any classes and files containing those tests.

![Test results on a unittest class and in Test Explorer](images/testing/test-results.png)

> VS Code also shows test results in the **Python Test Log** output panel.

Reviewer 2: Should we mention the button in the test explorer to bring up the UI?.

Author: I believe mentioned it on the configure tests section 😊

1. Set a breakpoint on first the line in the `test_decrement` function.

> 1. Right-click on the gutter decoration next to the function definition and select "Debug Test", or click on the "Debug Test" icon next to that test in the **Test Explorer**. VS Code starts the debugger and pauses at the breakpoint.

Reviewer 2: The gutter behavior can be configured to debug instead of run if needed.

- **Test: Debug Tests in Current File** - launches the debugger for the tests you have defined in the file you have open in the editor.
- **Test: Debug Test at Cursor** - launches the debugger only for the method where you have your cursor focused on the editor.  You can also use the "Debug Test" icons in **Test Explorer** to launch the debugger for all tests in a selected scope as well as all discovered tests.

The debugger works the same for tests as for other Python code, including breakpoints, variable inspection, and so on. To customize settings for debugging tests, you can specify ```"purpose": ["debug-test"]``` in the `launch.json` file in the ```.vscode``` folder from your workspace. This configuration will be used when you run **Test: Debug All Tests**, **Test: Debug Tests in Current File** and **Test: Debug Test at Cursor** commands.

For example, the configuration below in the ```launch.json``` file disables the ```justMyCode``` setting for debugging tests:

```py
{
    "name": "Python: Current File",
    "type": "python",
    "request": "launch",
    "program": "${file}",
    "purpose": ["debug-test"],
    "console": "integratedTerminal",
    "justMyCode": false
}
```

> If you have more than one configuration entry with ```"purpose":"debug-test"```, the first definition will be used since we currently don't support multiple definitions for this request type.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have more than one configuration entry with ```"purpose": ["debug-test"]```, the first definition will be used since we currently don't support multiple definitions for this request type.
```

|  Test: Clear All Results | Clear all tests status, as the UI persists test results across sessions. |  Test: Debug All Tests | Debug all discovered tests. Equivalent to "Python: Debug All Tests" on versions before 2021.9.   |
|  Test: Debug Failed Tests |Debug tests that failed in the most recent test run. |
|  Test: Debug Last Run | Debug tests that were executed in the most recent test run. |
|  Test: Debug Test at Cursor | Debug the test method where you have your cursor focused on the editor. Similar to  "Python: Debug Test Method..." on version before 2021.9. |
|  Test: Debug Tests in Current File | Debug tests in the file that is currently in focus on the editor. |
|  Test: Go to Next Test Failure | If the error peek view is open, this command opens and moves to the peek view of the next test in the explorer that has failed. |
|  Test: Go to Previous Test Failure | If the error peek view is open, this command opens and moves to the peek view of the previous test in the explorer that has failed. |
|  Test: Peek Output | Opens the error peek view for a test method that has failed. |

> |  Test: Refresh Tests | Perform test discovery and updates the test explorer to reflect any test changes, addition or deletion. Similar to "Python: Discover Tests" on versions before 2021.9. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|  Test: Refresh Tests | Perform test discovery and updates the test explorer to reflect any test changes, addition or deletion. Similar to "Python: Discover Tests" on extension versions prior to 2021.9. |
```

> |  Test: Rerun Failed Tests | Run tests that failed in the most recent test run. Similar to "Python: Run Failed Tests" on versions before 2021.9.  |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|  Test: Rerun Failed Tests | Run tests that failed in the most recent test run. Similar to "Python: Run Failed Tests" on extension versions prior to 2021.9.  |
```

|  Test: Rerun Last Run | Debug tests that were executed in the most recent test run.  |

> |  Test: Run All Tests |  Run all discovered tests. Equivalent to "Python: Run All Tests" on versions before 2021.9.  |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|  Test: Run All Tests |  Run all discovered tests. Equivalent to "Python: Run All Tests" on extension versions prior to 2021.9.  |
```

> |  Test: Run Test at Cursor |  Run the test method where you have your cursor focused on the editor.  Similar to "Python: Run Test Method..." on versions before 2021.9. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|  Test: Run Test at Cursor |  Run the test method where you have your cursor focused on the editor.  Similar to "Python: Run Test Method..." on extension versions prior to 2021.9. |
```

> |  Test: Run Test in Current File | Run tests in the file that is currently in focus on the editor. Equivalent to "Python: Run Current Test File" on versions before 2021.9. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|  Test: Run Test in Current File | Run tests in the file that is currently in focus on the editor. Equivalent to "Python: Run Current Test File" on extension versions prior to 2021.9. |
```

> |  Test: Show Output | Open the output with details of all the test runs.  Similar to "Python: Show Test Output" on versions before 2021.9. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|  Test: Show Output | Open the output with details of all the test runs.  Similar to "Python: Show Test Output" on extension versions prior to 2021.9. |
```

> |  Testing: Focus on Test Explorer View | Open the test explorer view. Similar to "Testing: Focus on Python View" on versions before 2021.9.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|  Testing: Focus on Test Explorer View | Open the test explorer view. Similar to "Testing: Focus on Python View" on extension versions prior to 2021.9.
```
